feature: sqs queue instrumentation (#2013)
elastic/apm-agent-nodejs: docs/message-queues.asciidoc

> [[message-quques]]

Reviewer: typo

```suggestion
[[message-queues]]
```

> == Message Queues

Reviewer: We use [sentence case capitalization](https://apastyle.apa.org/style-grammar-guidelines/capitalization/sentence-case) for headings.

```suggestion
== Message queues
```

> The Node.js Agent will automatically create spans for any activity to/from your Amazon SQS message queues.  In order to have those spans recorded, your message queue activity must  occur during a transaction.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Node.js Agent will automatically create spans for any activity to/from your Amazon SQS message queues.  To record these spans, your message queue activity must occur during a transaction.
```

> The Node.js Agent will automatically create spans for any activity to/from your Amazon SQS message queues.  In order to have those spans recorded, your message queue activity must  occur during a transaction.

Author: ✅ 👍

> If you're performing queue operations during an HTTP request from a <<compatibility-frameworks,supported framework>>     the agent will start a transaction automatically.  However, if you're performing queue operations in a stand alone program (such as a message processor) you'll need to use the Node.js Agent's <<apm-start-transaction,`startTransaction()`>> method to create transactions for your messages.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you're performing queue operations during an HTTP request from a <<compatibility-frameworks,supported framework>>, the agent will start a transaction automatically.  However, if you're performing queue operations in a stand-alone program (such as a message processor), you'll need to use the Node.js Agent's <<apm-start-transaction,`startTransaction()`>> method to manually create transactions for your messages.
```

Reviewer: I'm not sure that this paragraph should be separate from the preceding one.

You can see an example of this in the following code sample.

[source,js]
----
const apm = require('elastic-apm-node').start({/*...*/})
const AWS = require('aws-sdk');
// Set the region
AWS.config.update({region: 'us-west'});

// Create an SQS service object
const sqs = new AWS.SQS({apiVersion: '2012-11-05'});

/* ... */

> const transaction = apm.startTransaction("Process Messages", 'cli')
> sqs.receiveMessage(params, function(err, data) {
>   if(err) {
>     console.log("Receive Error", err);
>   } else {
>     console.log(`Length: ${data.Messages.length}`)
>     /* process messages */
>   }
>   // end the transaction
>   transaction.end()
> })
> ----
> 
> In the above code you can see we've started a transaction before calling the `sqs.receiveMessage` method, and ended it _after_ the queue's processing callback finishes executing.  The will ensure a transaction is active while processing your queue messages.

Reviewer: I'm a sucker for code callouts, but nbd either way.

```suggestion
const transaction = apm.startTransaction("Process Messages", 'cli') <1>
sqs.receiveMessage(params, function(err, data) {
  if(err) {
    console.log("Receive Error", err);
  } else {
    console.log(`Length: ${data.Messages.length}`)
    /* process messages */
  }
  // end the transaction
  transaction.end() <2>
})
----
<1> Prior to calling the `sqs.receiveMessage` method, start a new transaction.
<2> Only end the transaction _after_ the queue's processing callback finishes executing. The will ensure a transaction is active while processing your queue messages.
```

[float]
[[message-queues-distributed-tracing]]

> === Distributed Tracing and Messaging Queues

Reviewer: Sentence case again

```suggestion
=== Distributed tracing and messaging queues
```

> Similarly, if you want to connect your queue scheduling and queue processing via distributed tracing, you'll need to use the Node.js Agent's API to _store_ a `traceparent` header with your queue message and then provide that `traceparent` header when starting the new transaction.

Reviewer: It might not be immediately clear what we're referring to when we say, "similarly". I would simplify to something like:

```suggestion
To enable queue scheduling and queue processing with distributed tracing, use the Node.js Agent's API to _store_ a `traceparent` header with your queue message; then, provide that `traceparent` header when starting a new transaction.
```

Here's an example that uses the Node.js Agent API to store the `traceparent` as a message attribute and then uses that attribute to link your new transaction with the original.

> First, when sending the message, we add the trace as one of the `MessageAttributes`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
First, when sending the message, we add the trace as one of the `MessageAttributes`.
```

[source,js]
----
// stores the traceparent when sending the queue message
const traceParent = apm.currentTransaction ? apm.currentTransaction.traceparent : ''

// Use the Amazon SQS `MessageAttributes` to pass 
// on the  traceparent header
const params = {
  /* ... other params ... */
  MessageAttributes: {
    /* ... other attributes ... */
    "MyTraceparent":{
        DataType: "String",
        StringValue: traceParent
    }
  }

}
sqs.sendMessage(params, function(err, data) {
  /* ... */
});
----

> Then, when receiving the messages, we start and end our transaction while looping over the messages.  

Reviewer: I'm confused here. The previous text only refers to a singular message, but now we're talking about multiple messages:

> First, when sending the message, we add the trace as one of the `MessageAttributes`

> Then, when receiving the messages, we start and end our transaction while looping over the messages.

Author: appologies -- looks like a copy/pasta error with the code sample.  I will correct

Author: @bmorelli25 I think I see the confusion here. It was not copy/pasta as I originally thought.  

The SQS API _schedules_ a single message at a time.  However, when you're consuming messages, the API always returns an array of messages.  My original text assumed the reader had some experience with SQS queues already and would have internalized this. 

I've made some small adjustments to the section to address this, and the other place I introduced confusion.  If this is still a head scratcher lets sync up via slack or zoom to talk it out.

[source,js]
----
// uses the traceparent to start a transaction

sqs.receiveMessage(params, function(err, data) {
  if(!data.Messages) {
    return
  }
  
  // loop over your returned messages
  for(const message of data.Messages) {
    // start a transaction to process each message, using our previously
    // saved distributed tracing traceparent header
    let traceparent
    if(message.MessageAttributes.MyTraceparent) {
        traceparent = message.MessageAttributes.MyTraceparent.StringValue
    }
    const transactionMessage = apm.startTransaction('RECEIVE_TRANSACTION', 'cli', {
      childOf:traceparent
    })
    /* ... process message ... */
    transactionMessage.end()
  }
})

----

> Unlike the first code sample, this approach will create a single transaction for each processed queue message.  This allows you to link each individual message with the transaction it started in. The <<apm-start-transaction,`startTransaction()`>> API allows _you_ to control how your queue data is reported to Elastic APM.

Reviewer: I'm confused here too.

> Unlike the first code sample, ...

But the first example is about sending the message?

Author: @bmorelli25 OK, I see the confusion here.  It was not copy/pasta as I originally thought.  I wasn't referring to the immediately previous code sample, I was referring to the code sample at the _top_ of this page.  

I've pulled this last paragraph in favor of some callouts.  I also decided that trying to communicate the difference in where a transaction is started might impact how spans and linked might be too much information for this doc. 

If there's still confusion around this lets sync up via slack or zoom to talk it out.

Reviewer: Doh! That makes sense. Let me take another read-through.
